---
layout: post
title: Remote Photoplythesmograpy, an introduction and the uses in ADAS systems.
date: 2024-04-28 22:00:00
description: An introduction and an application to the remote photoplethesmography technique.
tags: ADAS MedicalSystems SVPWM Matlab EngineeringCode OpenSource
categories: project
thumbnail: 
---
## Introduction
The heart rate is defined as the number of times a heart beats per minute, as the work done by the person increases HR increases.
HR variation has a huge significance to medicine, psychology and many other fields.
At present standard technique to measure HR is electrocardiogram(ECG).
This system will comprise of a video-based Photoplethysmogram(PPG) that will provide a contact-free determination of a person’s Heart Rate.
It will use face detection for ROI constrained near-real time signal analysis.
The rPPG based system will eliminate the limitations of the contact based PPG techniques.

## OBJECTIVES
- The main objective is to remotely measure the live heart rate of a person.
- To study the concepts of face detection in Region Of Interest extraction. 
- To study the concepts of face detection in Region Of Interest extraction. 
- To work on face colour analysis in order to determine the Heart Rate of the test subject.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/png.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Region of Interest for the rPPG measurement.
</div>

## Proposed method
### Input Video
 RGB sensor like a Camera will be used to input to video  to the system. 
### Pre-Processing
This stage includes ROI definition and tracking using a suitable face detection algorithm.
### Extraction Of PPG Signal
This stage includes decomposing the video frame into its RGB components which will be used for PPG signal analysis.
### Peak detection and HR Estimation
 From the filtered data the peaks will be plotted and the heart rate parameter will be extracted.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/rppg-block-diagram.JPG" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Block diagram of the rPPG methodology.
</div>

## Summary
- Small changes due to the heart beat which are invisible to human eye can be detected by the camera and processed on a computer to read out the live pulse of the person.
- The data can be processed over time to predict diseases like Heart-Attack or Hypertension.
- By using the contact less PPG technique the need for extra equipment for pulse measurement is eliminated.